I'm back in our project folder and there first of all, I want to install workbox.
Now as I mentioned, you can implement it in your workbox workflow or in your workflow or whatever
you have
and of course I'll come back to that too and guide you into the right direction to do just that
but you can also just use the CLI and use it in your project just with npm scripts and this is the approach
I want to use here for the same reason I chose this project set up in this course in general. I want
to show you a very generic approach which works in all your project instead of focusing on one which
then is hard to apply to other project setups.
So for that, let's open up the terminal, this is just the normal Mac terminal
integrated into my IDE again, navigate it into this project folder.
Now with npm, I'll only install a new package and
I'll add the --save-dev flag to save it as a development dependency entry in my package.json
file. The name of the package is workbox-cli,
this is the CLI of the workbox tool and you can use that in any project.
Now let me hit enter here and this will install that CLI,
now of course I'll also show you how to use it.
So let's quickly wait for this installation to finish
and let's now use that tool.
Now if we have a look at that package.json file, we see the workbox CLI was installed here
and we can now actually write a little script here to use it. I'll write a script and I'll simply name
it generate-sw because I want to automatically generate a service worker with this tool and for that,
I will execute workbox.
The package is called workbox CLI but it actually exposes a command named workbox and there, we now
can run generate:sw. Now this is the command
I want to execute and we can now run this by running npm run and execute our own script, generate-sw, so
now we execute this script here.
If we now hit enter, we get a prompt and there the first question is what our root of the web app is.
So for us, that's a public folder because that is from where this application get served,
let's hit enter here. Then you can define which kind of files you want to precache.
Now here, I'll leave all enabled,
we'll later tweak this,
the next question is where the new service worker should be stored and here, I'll overwrite the default because
I want to store it in public/
and now sw.js because I don't want to overwrite my existing one yet.
So don't use sw.js, don't overwrite this existing file, pick a different file
but in the same folder.
So here, I'll hit enter and in the last question,
do we want to save the settings in a config file?
Definitely hit yes
here, so y
and hit enter.
Now this gives you a new file, the workbox-cli.config.js
and
it gives you two new files in the public folder, this
workbox-sw.prod file and this service-worker.js
file. If you open the service-worker.js file, this is the file automatically generated by
that CLI.
Now in that file, you'll notice
you have this file manifest array
and here you see a lot of the files of your project being referenced together with a unique hash number
or hash ID.
This ID is used by workbox to automatically manage your versions, your file versions
and if you change one of these files and rerun the generate-sw command, it will update the hash ID
of any file you changed in this array.
This becomes important because it uses this revision ID to manage your cache and invalidate replace
outdated resources,
what we had to do previously manually with our static cache version number we had to bump up, here it's managed
on a per asset basis automatically for us which is pretty awesome.
So here, it actually caches everything, we're going to adjust this later
and then you see at the bottom, it creates a new instance of this, basically of the workbox package
I can say we just installed and then call the precache command to simply precache all these files
and behind the scenes, this will do a lot more. This will actually put all these files into the cache during
the install step,
so basically what we did manually here at the top of our sw.js file,
we also stored some static files during installation.
Now this happens automatically and it also sets up a fetch listener to listen for any of these files
being requested and then serving it from the cache even when offline.
Now what this does is that when we switch to this new service worker by going to source javascript
app.js, let's register service worker here instead of sw.js. If we do this, let's make sure npm
start is running so that our development server is running.
Now if we navigate to our application, let's clear the storage to get rid of the old service worker and
then reload this page.
Now what you'll see is it should still work
but if you go to the application tab and refresh your cache storage, you'll see there actually is now
this workbox precaching revision thing and that actually caches or holds all the items which were part
of this file manifest array. All the other caches are gone because our own service worker is not getting
used,
therefore for now we lost many features but no worries,
we're going to re-introduce them
but you'll see that if I go offline, whilst the styles and so are missing because we're not caching
them right now, again this will be added,
generally it does work offline, it precached our file here.
It can't open the menu because it didn't cache some other important files but in general, it is working.
Now of course, it's not really that great and we definitely need to enhance this,
we need to make sure we also cache the styling and the fonts and so on
but we are using this new service worker already and you can see, it seems to serve something if we're
offline,
so clearly this precache function does a lot of work for us. Now that's the basic set up, of course right
now we kind of made our project way worse,
we're going to fix this soon though and in a brand new project, this might be a good way to start because
you immediately precached your static assets and if you don't need more than that, you're already done.
We're not done yet though so let's continue
and enhance this set up.